# Micro

A collection of tiny projects I've made.
No guarantees on how well these work -- I might not have touched them in a long time!

## ifdef-clean - C preprocessor conditional cleaner

Usage: `ifdef-clean file1.c file2.c file3.c`.
This program works in-place, rewriting the input files.
`#elif` is not supported.

The use case for this program is if you have a C project with platform-specific macros, like this:

```c
#ifdef _WIN32
// windows-specific thing
#else
// not windows
#ifdef __unix__
// linux stuff
#else
// some other operating system
#endif
#endif

#if FEATURE
// some feature
#else
// feature not supported
#endif
```

`ifdef-clean` will prompt you for whether to include (`y`es) or exclude (`n`o) a particular branch of the condition (eliminating corresponding `#if`/`#else`/`#endif` lines), or to keep all branches as-is (`i`gnore).
Your choices will be remembered and you will only be prompted on the first occurrence of any particular condition.

e.g. with the above content in `test.c`:
```
$ ifdef-clean test.c
#ifdef _WIN32 [yni]? n
#ifdef __unix__ [yni]? y
#if FEATURE [yni]? i
```

and `test.c` will now only contain

```c
// not windows
// linux stuff

#if FEATURE
// some feature
#else
// feature not supported
#endif
```

## clacks - Shows icon for X-Clacks-Overhead

This is a browser extension.
If the current page has the `X-Clacks-Overhead` header or a corresponding meta tag, a clacks icon will appear in your URL bar.

<!--BELOW AUTOGENERATED FROM ./micro-describe * _archive/* _unsw/*-->


## git-t - Clone to a location within ~/src based on its url

## micro-describe - Generate this command listing from the scripts

Usage: `micro-describe FILE...`

## nixpkgs-run - Abbreviation of `nix run -f '<nixpkgs>' $cmd -- $args`

## nixpkgs-shell - Abbreviation of `nix shell -f <nixpkgs>`

Either spawn a shell with a package, or run a command from a package.

## nixpkgs-where - Find which nixpkgs package has a binary

Requires nix-locate to be set up

## pretty - Prettifier multitool

Prettifies various formats

## rofi-unicode - Unicode picker using rofi

## tunnel-run - Transparently run on the mounted filesystem

This is a command wrapper that runs the command over ssh if you're in sshfs,
and locally if you're on a local filesystem.

You can also symlink other executables to this script, and `tunnel-run` will
transparently tunnel them, or call the underlying executable if running
locally. Doing this with svn or git, for example, can make those run
reasonably fast.

Warning: The commands will run on a completely different filesystem, so
absolute paths passed to/from the tunnelled command will likely not be
correct!

Note that this does not detect what options were supplied to sshfs.

Tip: you can ssh into the target machine with `tunnel-run sh -c 'exec $SHELL
--login'`.

## zlib - Compress and decompress zlib streams

## \_archive/dockerscript - Builds and runs a Dockerfile

As the blurb says. This can also be used as a shebang!

Inspired by https://github.com/wknapik/dockerfile-run

## \_archive/dropoff - Serve a website where you can upload files to the current system

## \_archive/git-ff - Fast-forwards branches without checking them out

This is similar to `git pull --ff-only` but can operate on branches you
haven't checked out. There is also an `--all` flag to operate on all branches.
Useful for updating your local repo to the state of upstream.

Inspired by https://stackoverflow.com/a/4157435/6936976

## \_archive/hooky - Poor-man's global hook manager

## \_archive/init.python - Set up a basic python project

## \_archive/show - Prints files with headers

Like head when passed multiple arguments -- cats files, preceding each with a
header

## \_archive/snip - Take screenshot and show a drag-and-drop popup with it

## \_archive/venv-run - Transparently run with venv binaries

For use with python venv; this runs the provided command, using the binary in
venv if it exists without needing to activate the venv

## \_archive/ws-rpc - Perform a JSON-RPC request on a websocket

## \_unsw/cs - CSE server multitool

This is a bundle of small utilities for using CSE servers and the
infrastructure for assignments and other tasks.

This is like the git command in that its actions are accessible via `cs
<command>`. Most of these also require the environment variables `$COURSE`
(e.g. `2041`) and `$TASK` (e.g. `lab03`).

- `cs help` shows a summary of the available commands.
- `cs fetch` to fetch the files for the task (like `1521 fetch lab03`) into
  the current directory.
- `cs task <task>` downloads the resources into a folder, but doesn't require
  `$TASK` to be set.
- `cs remote <cmd>...` to sync the files to CSE and run a command.
- `cs autotest <test>...` to run an autotest on your files (like `2041
  autotest shell_backup`)
- `cs give <exercise> <files>...` to submit files for a given exercise. The
  task is prepended to exercise, i.e. making `cs give shell_backup backup.sh`
  run `give cs2041 lab05_shell_backup backup.sh`.

These also assume that `rsync` is installed on your local sysm and that `ssh
cse` connects to the CSE servers.

## \_unsw/give - Submit an assignment, but from your local system

A much more lightweight alternative to `cs` using python3 and _not_ rsync.
Usage is as follows:

```
$ give cs1521 a1 main.c main.h # any other files
```

This assumes that `ssh` has been configured such that `ssh cse` connect to CSE
server. It copies the specified files over and runs `give` before deleting
them.

## \_unsw/mpp - MIPS preprocessor

A minimal preprocessor for MIPS (particularly SPIM, which lacks complex
directives), to make writing it for COMP1521 a bit nicer and less error-prone.

Currently supports two extra directives:

- `.include <file>` to textually include a file (like #include in C)
- `.let @<var> <expr>` to replace `@var` with `<expr>`
- `.unlet @<var>` to undo a previous .let

For example:

<table>
<tr> <th>a.s</th> <th>b.s</th> </tr>
<tr> <td><pre lang="asm">
.let @foo $s3
    move @foo, $a0
.include b.s
</pre></td>

<td><pre lang="asm">
.let @foo $t8
    move $v0, @foo
</pre></td>
</table>

gets turned into

```asm
    move $s3, $a0
    move $v0, $t8
```

## \_unsw/test00.sh - Test harness for COMP2041

Copy this and edit

## \_unsw/watch\_tlb - Watch for changes to tutorial/class enrolments

